[Music]
hi
i'm catherine i'm an editor at askmen
and today we're making caesar salad
it's pretty simple in terms of
ingredients but it's all about the
technique
let's first start with what we're going
to be using today
we've got romaine lettuce eggs lemons
fresh garlic parmesan cheese olive oil
extra virgin
anchovies and that's it so let's get
started
first we're going to crush the garlic
with a garlic press
you can also chop it up with a knife but
that's way more annoying
so we've got our garlic here now we're
going to
just chop up the anchovy a lot of people
feel like anchovies are gross
you just need to get over that right now
it's really just it's like
yummy salt that's that's all we're
talking about and we're gonna mash it up
so that it really kind of just becomes a
paste
and actually the original caesar salad
which simon majumdar talks about in his
article
was made not with anchovies but with
worcestershire sauce which contains
anchovies so that's kind of the same
flavor but it's just like a dash of
sauce instead of the whole anchovies and
now we are going to separate an egg
there's a few different methods to doing
this some people just run it right
through their hands
i just do the kind of back and forth
style and
there you go i'm just going to wash my
hands now because i have egg white on my
hands
and that's unsanitary so we've got the
the raw egg yolk and we're going to
mix it all together and now we're going
to add
half a lemon and the lemon juice the
acid from the lemon juice is going to
essentially
cook the egg
really get that lemon in there and then
i'm going to whisk it
so that it really gets well combined now
this is the part that is actually a
little bit more of a technique thing
this is where you're going to emulsify
olive oil
into the egg mixture here so when you're
doing this you can mess this up so pay
close attention
you have to combine the olive oil very
slowly in a slow
stream mixing all along
and you can take breaks if you feel like
you're getting stressed out
and you'll notice that it's kind of
looking like it's thickening up a tiny
bit and that's the egg and the olive oil
working together
now all we have to do is grate the
cheese in
so this is a microplane grater i know a
chef who says that this is the sexiest
kitchen implement
that you can buy and i would say you put
you know a quarter of a cup or more this
is basically gonna kind of
impart a creaminess to your dressing you
can put as much as you want
now you are at the point where you can
add your lettuce
so i just rip it with my hands like this
and i put it pretty big coarse pieces
now another big benefit to doing this
table side
is that you really should eat this like
pretty much right after you dress it
because it gets like the dressing is
pretty heavy and it kind of gets soggy
and gross quickly
so now you toss and you really got to
toss it pretty well
because it's thick look how nice that
thick dressing is but you really have to
get everything coated
[Music]
and then you finish with a little bit
more cheese on top which as much as you
want if you're like really into cheese
you can put so much that you can't even
see the green of the lettuce anymore but
that's kind of gross
there we go and we just made a caesar
salad from scratch